So, landmark elements, kind of similar
to headings, headings are used more.
In all of the feedback I've heard
from people who use screen readers,
headings are used a lot of the time.
Everyone's different, of course, but
landmark elements
are technically a best practice.
One of the things in the axe extension,
that if you turn best practices off,
any rules related to landmark
elements will be excluded.
They're nice to have and you absolutely
should include landmarks because, why not?
Just know that if you only have time
to prioritize one over the other,
put headings at the top of your list,
but landmarks are great.
There are things you create
in your templates and
you kind of just like set it and
forget it mostly.
If you aren't editing templates or
views that are for bigger sections
of your pages all the time,
you might not even see these elements.
Components might get slotted
into these landmarks.
When I opened up the Accessibility
Insights extension earlier,
we had things for headings and landmarks.
So just to refresh there, so
we have nav, main, section,
header, footer, aside, and
there are some rules with these.
So certainly in Mark Elements need
to be what's called top level.
Main is one, I think aside is another one,
so you can't nest main inside of nav.
Or aside,
that one's a little bit surprising,
that one has to be top level kind
of like as a sibling to your main
element
>> When to check if results of acts
are a false positive.
I'm always confused about landmarks and
specifically about role equal groups
that sometimes are used on list
items results that display as a result
>> Okay, so
the the question is about x results.
So a lot of these things
will come up in x results,
I'm gonna turn this landmarks thing off.
So the question was about when to
know about landmark element results.
So, if you're not working on best
practices, if you have to prioritize, you
have a lot of feedback, turn those off,
fix them later, maybe come back to them.
If you are trying to fix them because you
have bandwidth, it's the appropriate time,
what have you,
read through what it's telling you.
So, sometimes it will be
reporting that there are roles and
elements that there shouldn't be,
like for lists, those have default roles.
So we have lists here, ul and
ol and li for the list items,
those have roles built in,
a lot of these do.
That's kind of the overlap that we haven't
totally discussed yet of ARIA and HTML.
What makes them semantic
is that they have meaning,
whereas divs don't, and
so lists have roles.
So if you're putting a role of region on
one, I think what axe might be telling you
is that you could put the region
role on a div that wraps the list so
that the list keeps its semantic
roles without us overwriting them.
So that could be one thing,
if I'm following the question.
So one other note about section and
nav, anything that you've repeated.
And we've actually seen this already, just
kind of in the rendered result of what we
have in these slides,
is that I have two navs.
And I put an ARIA label on those so
that you could tell which one's which.
Cuz especially when you open up
a voiceover in the rotor, I think it won't
even show section elements if
they don't have labels on them.
But if it was just section, section,
section, section, that's like the new div.
[LAUGH] So they've learned through
practice of evaluating a lot of web
pages that sections that aren't
labeled are kind of treated as divs.
So if you want them to actually be
sectioning elements that come up in
the screen reader as like major sectioning
sign posts, you can label them.
And if you are worried about
aria-label getting out of date,
cuz sometimes those strings just get set
and forgotten, you can use aria-labeledby.
It's really similar, but instead of
taking a string value for a label,
you can point it at another element,
like a heading.
So if you have a piece of
content inside of the landmark,
aria-labelledby is pretty great for
labeling cuz you can just sort of double
up on content that is visible
that won't get out of date.
So that's one technique I
would recommend for landmarks.
So lists, they're awesome.
Don't sleep on using those,
because if you have groups of items,
like lists of lists, you can nest lists.
They're great because they
automatically count in a screen reader,
it'll say list five items.
There is one gotcha in Safari and
VoiceOver that I have to tell you about.
Safari, again,
in their heuristics of how webpages
are actually put written out in the wild.
They've made a counteraction of if lists
have their list style removed with CSS,
like there's no dot or no,
what do they call that?
A marker, they will actually not call
it out as a list in a lot of cases.
So if you see lists with roll list
bolted on, that might be why,
is because you can get Safari
to treat it as a list no
matter what if you bolt that list back or
the roll back on.
So I have an article if you're like, what?
What is she talking about?
[LAUGH] There's a link here where
Safari might need a little help.
Scott O'Hara did us a solid and wrote
a really great article on this problem.
So if you do use Safari and
VoiceOver a lot and you're like,
why are my lists not announcing as lists?
That might be why.
And speaking of axe results,
something that might come up is that lists
have rules that they can only have
list items as direct descendants.
So if you have like divs mixed in with
your list items as siblings, you might
get some failures in acts cuz I think
it messes up the counting of the lists.
So that's something I've
seen where the markup,
maybe we don't check it often enough,
like what is our framework rendering?
Sometimes the frameworks will complain
too, which really helps us out so
we can catch this stuff earlier.
But I think with all of this,
especially if you're using a framework
to build your UIs, look at what it's
spinning out, what actually gets rendered?
Cuz that can be very eye opening.
So, forms are a huge part of this,
there's some really powerful elements for
accessibility, starting with the form tag.
Within a form tag,
if you've built anything for the web,
you've probably worked with
a lot of these elements.
Field sets and legends are awesome,
you can group form controls together and
kind of give them a group
name with a legend.
And you can style those,
I think legend you might be able to make
screen reader only,
I'd have to go and double check.
But the big thing, the big story with
form controls is that they have to be
labeled or else, where do you even
filling in if you can't see it?
What does this checkbox do?
Can I opt out of your newsletter?
Everyone should be like,
no, we have to label that,
nobody wants extra newsletters, right?
So, we need to label every control.
Extensions like axe and wave and
accessibility and sites are really great
at pointing that out if something
went wrong or you missed it somehow.
There's two ways to label them, so for
a form input you can use the for
attribute on the label.
In React it's HTML4 because JSX and
HTML and JavaScript are all mixed up.
So to make sure that the compiler knows
we're talking about the label for
in react, it is the HTML for,
and then the ID.
It will match that label and the input or
select whatever form control it is.
It will say these two are joined, and
it will then expose that label as
the name for that form control.
Implicit is just when you have
a label element that wraps an input,
the label text will apply
to that input as well.
It's pretty easy, and
they're getting easier to style,
thank goodness,
[LAUGH] we really needed that.
And then one note about labeling and
naming, only certain elements can be
labeled with things like ARIA label, so
that question about the role region.
Or I think even on the SoundCloud
site that we tested earlier,
there might have been an axe result for
ARIA label not being like,
you can't use it on certain elements,
I think it's limited to a role of image.
What I tend to do for that type of thing,
if I'm like, can I label that element?
I'll go and
pull up the ARIA specification.
Let's go do that real quick as a practice,
so
ARIA 1.2,
let's say I wanted to look up aria-label.
I'm just gonna search for
it real quickly, and
then the first mention
of it I can click on.
So it will tell me what it is and
then what elements I can use it on.
And so this process of checking, where
can I use it, usually can be helpful.
I'm actually not really seeing
what I was looking for here.
But whenever you're gonna use something,
it would be worth going and
doing a search to make sure.
Your tooling will probably also complain
at you, which is helpful, like, hey,
you put an aria-label on a div,
you can't do that.
Okay, thank you tool,
thank you for telling me.
So those are some of
the practices that I use.
I'll look at MDN,
Mozilla Developer Network,
I'll look at ARIA if I'm wanting
to go check up on something.
Buttons and links are a huge one,
somehow these are the most basic
elements that we manage to screw up.
I didn't know about them either, I put
click events on divs just like everyone
else in the beginning, then I learned
how awesome the HTML button is.
So it's focusable for free, it has
a built-in role, and you can put a click
event on it and it will work from
the keyboard, a div will not.
Links are also awesome,
they have built-in behavior like history.
They need an href attribute to
be reachable with keyboard.
So sometimes things that are having
on click but not an href,
those links will not be accessible, so
just so you know that little detail.
And this is kind of the big
thing with buttons and links.
Buttons toggle things,
like interactive things in your interface,
launching models that are not deep linked,
maybe they toggle a setting or something.
Links navigate, so if there's anything
that needs to take you to a location,
if you can use an anchor link,
that's gonna be the best choice.
And what I hear about the most for this as
sort of an anecdote to think about is when
blind people call support, or
anyone who's using navigating by voice.
When they call customer support to get
help with a online product or service, and
they have someone talk them
through how to use it.
If the links don't look like links and
the buttons don't look like buttons and
they're not coded that way
it can get pretty confusing.
So we try to make links look like
links and buttons look like buttons,
that can get pretty tricky.
Cuz CTAs, as we call them, calls to
action, they all look like buttons.
The buttons look like links and
it's kind of just, we do the best we can.
Just know that those work and they're
accessible if we use them the right way.
So then lastly, the last one I wanna
mention here is details and summary.
So this is like a built-in accordion
widget, they're keyboard accessible,
they work pretty well, and
you get default elements.
Be sure to test your implementation
to make sure, but they're awesome.
If you don't already know about details
and summary, they're pretty great.
So sort of an overview of the elements
that you should definitely try to
use if you can.
Sure, question.
>> Have you used the HTML5
dialogue element?
>> Yes.
>> Doing modals,
would you recommend that or
would you recommend not using that?
>> I would recommend it, yes.
So the dialogue element, and really it
should be on this list, we'll add it.
But it has a dialogue role built in,
it has the open and close APIs,
that is definitely an example
of something that's built in.
I think with some of these
implementations, we have to go and check,
are they really accessible?
Another one that comes to mind
is the default date picker.
I actually had an example of that earlier
and we didn't dig into it very much, but
sometimes we are like, great,
there is a default thing.
Some of these newer components
that haven't quite caught on,
part of the reason might be that they're
not totally cross-platform stable.
So we wanna go and check, for the dialogue
I think it works reasonably well.
I think there might have been some
consensus building on what focus should be
sent into automatically when it opens.
I think that was like a sticking
point if I remember correctly.
But I think it should work reasonably
well, maybe a good thing to test.